# collective-access-for-2.1
A Collective Access installation profile for PBCore 2.1 made possible in part by the National Endowment for the Humanities: Exploring the human endeavor, as part of the PBCore Development and Training Project.

## PBCore Elements and Attributes
All elements and the most widely used attributes are represented in the default Collective Access PBCore profile.
Descriptive data about assets, including all intellectual content and intellectual property fields, can be added in the Intellectual Content section. Each asset maps to one intellectual content record. The Primary Identifier field maps to PBCoreIdentifier, and designates the identifier that Collective Access will use to track the record. The Primary Title maps to PBCoreTitle, and designates the title that Collective Access will display as the record's title. To conform with PBCore, additional identifiers and titles can be added. Attributes such as @source and @titleType are available as fields that can be paired with the existing elements to provide more information about the additional identifiers and titles. 
Instantiation data, including data about essence tracks, can be added in the Objects section. This section is broken up into Physical Audio objects, Digital Audio objects, Physical Moving Image objects, and Digital Moving Image objects. Each type of object has a slightly different data entry form, displaying only the relevant fields for that object type; for example, the instantiationColors element only appears on the Mmoving Image object data entry forms. Multiple essence tracks can be added for each Object.

## Relating Assets and Instantiations
You can establish the relationship between an Asset and one or more of its Instantiations from the Intellectual Content or Object interfaces.
If you’re starting from the Intellectual Content record for an Asset that you want to relate to an Instantiation, you should navigate to that Intellectual Content record. From there, you can use the Instantiations section to look up the corresponding Instantiation's Object record by ID. If an Object record for that Instantiation doesn't exist yet, you can also start typing the ID in the Related Instantiations field, and this will give you the option to create a new Object record from there. You can use this method to link multiple Objects to an Intellectual Content record, thus creating multiple instantiations. 
If you’re starting from the Object that you would like to add as an Instantiation of an existing Asset, you should navigate to that Object's record. From there, you can use Intellectual Content section to look up the corresponding Asset's record by ID or Title. If the Intellectual Content record for the Asset doesn't exist yet, you can also start typing the title in the Related Intellectual Content field, and this will give you the option to create a new Intellectual Content record from there.

## Controlled Vocabularies
All of the controlled vocabularies that are maintained by the PBCore community are included in the profile. If you would like to modify the vocabulary lists or add vocabularies for additional fields, you can follow the Collective Access documentation to do so.

This configuration keeps a lot of the default Collective Access functionality, so in addition to storing information about Assets and Instantiations, users can use the additional sections available in Collective Access to create records for Object Lots, Entities, Places, Collections, and Storage Locations. For more information about how to use these features, please see the Collective Access documentation. Once these records are created, some of them may become available as controlled values to populate PBCore fields. For example, you can populate the Creator, Contributor, or Producer fields using an Entity created in the Collective Access Entity section. 

